hi I'm mark Vaughn with Auto week
today's vehicle the fabulous new
Mercedes ml350 now you're thinking new
that thing looks exactly like the old
one it's the same wheelbase but it's an
inch longer an inch lower and the track
is an inch wider a lot of the same stuff
inside under the hood we'll get to that
in a minute but overall this car is very
comfortable to drive it is the ultimate
perfect surprise gift for the perfect
soccer spouse we're not going to say
soccer mom that's pejorative let's get a
look at what's inside it Mercedes claims
to have invented the crossover utility
vehicle when the first ml they viewed 14
years ago maybe they did vehicle classes
are pretty fluid lately but whether it
was first or not you could argue that
Mercedes did the best job of injecting
luxury into this class this is the third
ml introduced to the US market late last
year even though a few dimensions are
fairly altered and the sheetmetal is
theoretically all new Mercedes didn't
try anything radically different with
this car that could alienate the 35,000
buyers from last year it looks the same
which is probably what people want while
there is a highly efficient BlueTEC
diesel v6 available the ML we're testing
today is the highly efficient gasoline
direct-injected v6 with an output of 302
horsepower and 273 pound-feet of torque
that v6 has plenty of power to move the
4750 3 pound ml off the line with a
little brake talking to get the most out
of it it launched well every time in the
new 7-speed automatic shifted on its own
better than we could have done it we
wound up hitting 60 miles per hour in
6.5 seconds and we hit the quarter mile
in 14.9 at 93.1 top speed if we'd had
the room is a hundred and thirty miles
per hour
the 13-inch ventilated front discs and
12.8 inch solid rears hauled the beast
down from 60 in just 119 feet again a
pretty good figure for something that
weighs nearly 5,000 pounds and while
we're being amazed that something this
heavy can perform so well the ML when
did its way through the slalom at a
respectable forty one point three miles
per hour
it was hampered by its own stability
control which when in comfort mode made
cone travel almost impossible to do
quickly but when in sport it got a
little more lively though not much
likewise on the skid pad it managed 0.8
for G which is also pretty good
considering again how heavy tall and
electronically shackled this thing was
but the suburban domestic driver of
these things isn't going to auto cross
them for almost all driving on regular
roads the ML 350 is supremely luxurious
it is quiet quick and loaded with
electronic comforts everything from good
audio to an attention assist system that
determines if you are getting drowsy
considering how much this thing Cottle's
you that might be a good feature to
check so that is the new Mercedes ML 350
it's a great midsize luxury SUV with the
emphasis on luxury because this starts
and the low 50s and goes up to the
mid-60s but when you consider the
competition which you could also buy in
that price range it is an excellent
entrant very strong throughout a week
this is Mark lon
you